Python/README.md, before:

# CUVIS Python SDK

Python Version: 3.9

## Installing Cuvis Python SDK via setup.py

__In order to install the Python SDK, Cuvis must be installed. 
Download the installer for windows (or the .deb files for Ubuntu 20.04) and the \_cuvis\_pyil file as well as the cuvis\_il.py file here:__
https://cloud.cubert-gmbh.de/index.php/s/dPycyPcjnvee9F0

After installing, check out the repository and copy the *\_cuvis\_pyil* as well as the cuvis\_il.py file into *Cubert-Community-Hub\Python\src\cuvis*.

### Virtual Environment Creation

Create a virtual environment with the following commands. This will protect your normal Python programming environment from the specific packages the CUVIS SDK needs to run.
```
cd <<Cubert-Community-Hub>>/Python/src
python -m venv cubert_env
./cubert_env/Scripts/activate
```

Then navigate from within your coding environment to *Cubert-Community-Hub\Python\src* and run *pip install . [-e]* in the command line.

## Linux Specific Instructions

Linux will require the application of additional environmental settings. Add the following variables to your `.bashrc` file.

```
export CUVIS="/lib/cuvis"
export CUVIS_DATA="/opt/cuvis"
```
To give cuvis permission to create log files, run this command to set ownership of the Cuvis directory to your user.
```
sudo chown -R <<USER_NAME>> /opt/cuvis/
```
### Running Jupyter Notebooks

Jupyter notebooks are an interactive, web-based Python interpreter. There are example notebooks provided in the `notebooks` directory. With your virtual environment active, run the following command to enable interactive controls in the notebooks.

```
jupyter nbextension enable --py widgetsnbextension
```
You are now ready to launch a notebook. `cd notebooks` and run `jupyter-notebook` to start the Jupyter webserver.

Commit message:

initial notebook structure ready for release

Python/README.md, after:

# CUVIS Python SDK

Python Version: 3.9. _This is a strict requirement!_ The Python interpreter must be 3.9.x. Both older and newer versions are not compatible with the provided bindings to the compiled SDK.

## Installing Cuvis Python SDK

In order to install the Python SDK, the Cuvis application must be installed first.

Download the installer for windows (or the .deb files for Ubuntu 20.04) and the `_cuvis_pyil.pyd` file as well as the `cuvis_il.py` file [here](
https://cloud.cubert-gmbh.de/index.php/s/dPycyPcjnvee9F0).

After installing, check out the repository and copy the *\_cuvis\_pyil* as well as the cuvis\_il.py file into *Cubert-Community-Hub\Python\src\cuvis*.

### Virtual Environment Creation

Create a virtual environment with the following commands. This will protect your normal Python programming environment from the specific packages the CUVIS SDK needs to run.
```
cd <<Cubert-Community-Hub>>/Python/src
python -m venv cubert_env
./cubert_env/Scripts/activate
```

Then navigate from within your coding environment to `Cubert-Community-Hub/Python/src` and run `pip install . [-e]` in the command line.

## Linux Specific Instructions

Linux requires the application of additional environmental settings. Add the following variables to your `.bashrc` file.

```
export CUVIS="/lib/cuvis"
export CUVIS_DATA="/opt/cuvis"
```
To give cuvis permission to create log files, run this command to set ownership of the Cuvis directory to your user.
```
sudo chown -R <<USER_NAME>> /opt/cuvis/
```
### Running Jupyter Notebooks

Jupyter notebooks are interactive, web-based Python interpreters. There are example notebooks provided in the `notebooks` directory. With your virtual environment active, run the following command to enable interactive controls in the notebooks.

```
jupyter nbextension enable --py widgetsnbextension
```
You are now ready to launch a notebook. `cd notebooks` and run `jupyter-notebook` to start the Jupyter webserver.

In browser, select `Hyperspectral_Data_Exploration.ipynb` to open the notebook. A great beginner guide to Jupyter notebooks is available from [*Python Like You Mean It*](https://www.pythonlikeyoumeanit.com/Module1_GettingStartedWithPython/Jupyter_Notebooks.html).
